Next ships with some of the latest
kind of features of ES6 and 7 turned-on-by-lethal.
This means that, in particular, we have dynamic imports.
So we have these import statements up at the top and,
but we can also, inside of our code,
do imports in the module, let's say,
this codemirror thing,
.then or default,
It's defaults? Default.
And we actually can receive the module.
So we could even have it in kind of an await.
Foo, so, async,
foo, function,
and it will do const module = await import,
and then something with the module.
Okay, so this allows us,
because we're doing a lazy,
effectively lazy import with the module,
the way that Next kind of rearranges all its code
is it will treat that as a completely separate piece
that it will code split out of your main bundle.
So if it's something you don't need to run on server side,
or something that can be loading on,
when the user demands it,
this is a really good candidate for using dynamic imports.
So, in this example, we've got this notes box,
and I'm running codemirror in it.
There's a piece of code to get the syntax highlighted
that only will run, will only run in the browser.
So my argument is really like the whole notes section,
I'm not gonna even do the rendering on the server side.
I wanna show a loading block,
and then watch it load in the notes section.
So that will be dynamically loaded in,
and actually completely split out.
So, I'm gonna lazy load this Notes,
but when it's loading, I wanna show
kind of a, just a piece of text saying loading.
I could also kind of use those,
I think they're called rails,
where there's just kind of like bars to show
that it's loading in the client side.
And Next has this dynamic import library that it provides.
So there's a couple of libraries a bit like this,
but this is the one that we're gonna use.
And the idea is you can
basically load the module dynamic,
and then you give it your promise to load the actual module,
and when it renders, and if it hasn't got it yet,
it should render kind of a holding state.
So this is an example of what it would show
once it's loading.
So here, it's loading this component too,
and whilst it's loading that component,
and actually making the request for the bundle for hello2,
it'll show this ellipsis in this section.
So that's what we're gonna do.
Instead of loading the notes component right away,
we're gonna use this dynamic method,
and I'm gonna show a kind of loading ellipsis,
and you could put any animation in there if you wanted to,
and then once it's loaded, it'll run on the page.
But in addition, I'm gonna make use of this
server side: false.
So this will prevent any of that code
running on the server side at all.
So that will mean that I can refactor this code
a little bit more so it's a bit more readable,
and put the require in there and don't worry about the mode,
and this will only run in the client side.
Now this is just,
the reason this only runs in the client side
is just purely for this example.
Const Notes = whoa, dash.
In a real production piece of code,
I might not wanna just have this running on the client side.
Maybe I'd want it to render text, so it can be spidered.
But then on the other hand, I guess,
the user has to be signed in to be able to read it,
because of private text, so
there's always these kind of considerations
you need to think about.
Okay, so this Notes is gonna change.
We are gonna change it to a dynamic import.
So up here, I'm gonna do import dynamic from dynamic,
and I'm gonna do,
I'm gonna rename this component to be,
oh in fact, might not even have it there,
I'm gonna do const Notes = dynamic,
and that's gonna be import...that.
Okay, and I'm gonna do, what is it, loading?
And I'm gonna do...this.
And we're also gonna say ssr: false,
words overlays.
So look at how we're looking, right, so...
Check we're passing in.
Import.
Just double check the syntax.
Ah, this, no, looks okay.
Yep, looks all right to me.
And with server side off, same thing.
Ah, so we've got loaded of undefined.
Where is this?
Cannot read property, loaded of undefined.
So, ah, whoops.
That's an arbitrary, random blob there.
Okay, props.
So props aren't being passed down.
So this is interesting is it's not,
it's not passing the props into our component.
And there is a fix for this,
but I'm just gonna disable it for the time being.
(groans) All right, hang on.
I think it is reading the props,
just I'm not capturing the props.
There we go.
And that's, let's take this component.
There we go, that's looking okay,
except for the fact that CSS hasn't actually loaded.
Brilliant.
So it looks like we need to load,
this isn't getting inserted into our Next application,
because it's being lazy loaded,
and therefore not in the style sheet.
So if we have a look here,
static, this style sheet doesn't contain
the CSS for this because it's being loaded dynamically.
So we would have to think about how this is loaded,
or we could load it as part of this,
which is what I'm gonna show you
so that you can see how to do multiple components in one go.
It looks like the URL is being passed down correctly,
and that is codemirror, but there's no styles.
And just to, just gonna pop the styles into here,
just for the time being, to show that it works.
Okay, sorry for a lot of flashing there.
So you can see it's saying loading notes,
and then it loads it.
And you can imagine there being
some extra request going on
to get all the user notes from the API.
But if we wanna load multiple packages, we can do this.
So on this page is syntax for multiple at once.
We can do modules, and we can define the render function,
and that's exactly what we're gonna do.
So we're gonna do modules,
and we're gonna do render,
though I'm not sure,
and const components = Notes.
And this'll be, I think it's,
just double check, syntax, got,
props comes in, and then the individual modules come in.
So this'll be Notes, and we don't,
we're gonna lazy load these two in as well.
Just a shame, so css1: import,
css2: import.
Think we might just take a look at what's in here.
So fix that, so return components.
Okay, so the rule, CSS has come back and, when we load it,
so we're gonna have to pop that into
an element.
So I'm gonna,
really, I would put this kind of all into its separate file,
but I'm gonna bring in next/head,
and I'm gonna put the CSS into a head component.
So, Fragment, Head, then I'll put the style sheet in there.
And I'm gonna put the CSS directly into there,
and then we're gonna have our notes components,
and we're gonna spread props onto it.
Okay, and this is
an array of css1 and 2,
so let's grab the css1 and 2, css1, css2,
and we're gonna put the CSS directly into here as text.
So css1, can I do toString?
I'll do toString.
And then I'm gonna do css2.toString,
miss the brace.
So looking at how that works out, cool.
Okay, so that is working.
And what we should see is
these are separate blobs.
So if we just look for JavaScript,
I think that's everything.
So we request,
and then we can these subsequent requests here.
Just makes it a little bit bigger.
You can see this is three files.
First one is the codemirror.
Let's get rid of our cache as well.
So this is codemirror,
ah, well, no, I think that's codemirror,
that one, 600 bytes.
And then we've got this 25 bytes.
I'd be willing to bet that's the CSS for codemirror,
and this one is the, our notes CSS.
In fact, there's the file name, just there, you can see it.
So that is how you can use dynamic imports in Next.
So it's fairly flexible.
You can go from just a promise-based import to
this kind of syntax,
which is a lot easier to kind of write out,
all the way down to a much more complex,
well, a little bit more complex model,
and specifically, you can control whether it's rendered
on the server side or on the client side.